[title=ShmupCC scripting primer]
# ShmupCC Tutorial

If you're here, then you're probably interested in learning how to script in this engine. ShmupCC is an open-source bullet hell engine written in Java, designed to be easy to modify for whatever purposes you want. However, like any engine, ShmupCC has its own quirks and formatting, and this primer is basically meant to teach the absolute basics of how the engine functions. If you want to know what a method does, you can hover your mouse over it and a tool-tip should pop up (except for certain constructor methods).

In order to properly make use of ShmupCC, a certain amount of external knowledge is required. First is general knowledge of how to program in Java, as the engine is written in Java, and scripting in this engine does not make use of external script files, but instead creates new Class files that define the behavior of stages, and the enemies that are spawned by the stage. Secondly, a passing knowledge of how ECL (ZUN’s scripting language) handles bullet shooting will greatly help with getting the hang of bullet spawning in ShmupCC. If one is not already familiar with how to spawn bullets in ECL, [Priw8's ECL tutorial](https://priw8.github.io/#b=ecl-tutorial/&p=1) is easy to understand and teaches all the concepts required.

The rest of this guide will assume that you’re using the default assets that come bundled with the engine. If you want to add your own sound effects, editing SoundManager.java to import your own .wav should be simple enough, with the caveat that the audio MUST have a sampling rate of 44.1 kHz.
If you want to add your own images (or, god forbid, animations), you’re on your own lmao it’s not even properly implemented in the engine yet

## Table of contents

### Part 1: Absolute basics
- 1 [Setting up the enviroment](#b=shmupCC-tutorial/&p=2)
- 2 [Making an empty stage](#b=shmupCC-tutorial/&p=3)
- 3 [Stage Timing and Enemy Spawning](#b=shmupCC-tutorial/&p=4)
- 4 [Spawning Bullets](#b=shmupCC-tutorial/&p=5)
- 5 [Positioning and Movement](#b=shmupCC-tutorial/&p=6)

### Part 2: Features
- 6 [Callbacks](#b=shmupCC-tutorial/&p=7)
