# Stage Timing and Enemy Spawning
Understanding how timing works is essential to being able to do any sort of non-simple design. It is very difficult to understate the importance of knowing how to set up simple timing loops. For example, let's look at this code excerpt from my BHA8 submission and explain what's going on:

[code]@Override
public void [method=StageScript.tick,110]() {
	switch(chapter) {
	case 0:
		chapter1actions();
		break;
        ...
        //rest of the switch statement
    }
}

void chapter1actions() {
	if(stageTimer % 10 == 0) {
		boolean toMirror = (stageTimer % 20 == 0);
		double xSpawn = (parentGame.[method=Game.fetchRNG,110]()).nextDouble();
		xSpawn = xSpawn * 240;
		enmMgr.[method=EnemyManager.addEnemy1,110](new Enm2(), xSpawn - 120, -32, 100, toMirror);
	}
	if(stageTimer == 60 * 12) {
		stageTimer = 0;
		chapter++;
		chapter2init();
	}
}[/code]

First off, [methodF=StageScript.tick,110] is a method that is called by the main class, `Game`, every frame. This method contains all the user defined stage logic. In our case, we use it as a branching point into one of several other methods based on what stage section we're on, which in my case is a variable I named `chapter`. Since we're in the first stage section, we call `chapter1actions()`, which I've separated from [method_notip=StageScript.tick,110] for readability and ease of testing.

Inside `chapter1actions`, we can immediately see a field called `stageTimer`. This field is auto-incremented before every call of [method_notip=StageScript.tick,110], which makes it very useful to measure time for a variety of things. Each enemy instance also has an equivalent of this field, fittingly called `enemyTimer`.

You can probably guess what the code above does: Every 10 frames, it spawns an enemy with a random X-position, and half of those enemies have a sort of "mirror" property. After 12 seconds have passed, the stage script will reset `StageTimer` and prepare for the start of the next stage section.

We've already briefly touched on enemy spawning in the above section, so that's the next thing we'll cover.

### The enemy manager

The enemy manager is a class that automates everything to do with enemies - it automatically calls their update routines, it keeps track of references to them, and is responsible for very important things like having player bullets collide with enemies. Therefore, in order to properly spawn in an enemy, we need to pass a new instance of it to the enemy manager using the [methodF=EnemyManager.addEnemy1,110] method. If you're wondering how to invoke the enemy manager, every StageScript instance comes bundled with a reference to the enemy manager, stored as the `enmMgr` field.

There's one small problem, though. `Enemy` is an abstract class, so you can't create an instance of it directly. Instead, we have to make a subclass of it and pass a new instance of *that subclass* to the enemy manager.

### Enemy subclasses

Creating an enemy subclass is very simple. Here's a simple enemy subclass that we'll be using and modifying throughout the rest of the tutorial.[br]
[code]class EnmTest extends game.enemy.Enemy{	
	public EnmTest() {
		super();
	}
	@Override
	protected void [method=Enemy.initActions,110]() {
		// TODO Auto-generated method stub
	}
	@Override
	protected void [method=Enemy.doEnemyActions,110]() {
		// TODO Auto-generated method stub
	}	
}[/code]

We can just place this code in the same .java file as the rest of our example stage script.[br]
Now, let's spawn in an instance of this test enemy by modifying our StageScript's `tick` method.

[code]public void tick() {
	if(stageTimer == 10) enmMgr.addEnemy(new EnmTest(), 0, 50, 500, false);
}[/code]

Something seems off, though. If you actually run the stage here, it won't seem like anything happens. This is because we haven't set the enemy's sprite yet, and the default value of -1 is invisible. Let's change that by adding the following line to our enemy's [mothod=Enemy.initActions,110] method.[br]
[code]this.[method=Enemy.setEnemySprite,110](0);[/code][br]
This line of code, as you'd expect, gives the enemy a sprite. If you run the stage, we can see the fruits of our efforts - a single red circle appears near the top center of the screen!

With our test enemy spawned, we can finally start learning how to shoot bullets.