# Bullet Spawning

Bullets are the main attraction for any danmaku game, so let's get right to the point here. Similarly to how there's a class that manages all the enemies and runs collision checks for them, there's also a class called BulletManager that does basically the same thing, but for bullets. That said, the process of spawning a bullet is VERY different from spawning an enemy - with enemies, you're creating new enemy instances constantly. For bullets, the exact opposite is happening - a set of 1000 bullets is instantiated when the game loads, and they're constantly being de-activated and re-activated instead. For this reason, you should NEVER manually create a Bullet instance. Instead, you need to interact with the bullet manager to spawn bullets with your desired properties. To assist with this, there is a class called `BulletSpawner`.

### The BulletSpawner class

While it's possible to manually create a BulletSpawner instance, there's a much better way to do so: the [methodF=Enemy.newSpawner,110] method, which adds the newly-created spawner to the `spawners` list of the enemy that ran the method. `newSpawner` also returns the index of the newly-added spawner, so, for instance the code [code]BulletSpawner mySpawner = spawners.get(this.newSpawner());[/code] is valid.[br]
You can activate the spawner and shoot bullets by calling that spawner's [method=BulletSpawner.activate,110] method. If we were to do this immediately after constructing the spawner, our enemy would shoot a single white pellet, aimed directly at the player's location with a speed of 1.0 pixels per frame. This is because those are the attributes a BulletSpawner is initialized to when it spawns. For the sake of being able to more easily see what's going on, let's run the following method immediately after instantiating the spawner: [code]mySpawner.[method=BulletSpawner.setTypeAndColor,110](Bullet.BALL, Bullet.COLOR16_ORANGE)[/code].

So, what attributes can we modify to do wacky stuff with the spawner? Here's a list of some of them:
- Type and color
- Bullet count
- Bullet speed
- Angle of the pattern
- Position relative to the enemy the bullets spawn from
- Aim mode

There's a lot more, but these are the most important ones.

Now, if you're already familiar with ECL, this should give you a big sense of déja vu. This is because bullet spawning in ShmupCC is meant to be similar to ECL. Priw8 actually already has a great guide on bullet spawning in ECL, which is where a huge chunk of this website's source code came from.[br]
If you need your memory jogged or are otherwise unused to ECL bullet spawning, check out the page in question [at this link] (https://priw8.github.io/#b=ecl-tutorial/&p=5). Obviously, the methods ShmupCC uses are very different, but the bullet spawning modes and fields are usually similar. Try it out, and see what kind of patterns you can make.

There are a few bullet spawner parameters that ECL has no direct equivalent for, however. One of them is spawning frequency. While you can, of course, manually activate a bullet spawner whenever you want it to shoot, you can also have a bullet spawner automate its shooting at a consistent rhythm by using the [method=BulletSpawner.setActivationFrequency,110] method.

Lastly, can you try to guess what the following enemy will do?[br]
[code]class EnmTest extends game.enemy.Enemy{
	BulletSpawner mySpawner;
	private double anglenum;
	private double angleIncrement;
	public EnmTest() {
		super();
	}

	@Override
	protected void initActions() {
		[method=Enemy.setEnemySprite,110](0);
		mySpawner = spawners.get([method=Enemy.newSpawner,110]());
		anglenum = 0;
		angleIncrement = 0;
		mySpawner.[method=BulletSpawner.setMode,110](BulletSpawner.Mode_Ring_Nonaimed);
		mySpawner.[method=BulletSpawner.setBulletCounts,110](5, 1);
		mySpawner.[method=BulletSpawner.setSpeeds,110](3, 3);
		mySpawner.[method=BulletSpawner.setAngles,110](anglenum, anglenum);
		mySpawner.[method=BulletSpawner.setTypeAndColor,110](Bullet.RICE, Bullet.COLOR16_PURPLE);
		mySpawner.[method=BulletSpawner.setActivationFrequency,110](2);
	}

	@Override
	protected void doEnemyActions() {
		angleIncrement += (Math.PI)/2048;
		anglenum += angleIncrement;
		mySpawner.[method=BulletSpawner.setAngles,110](anglenum, anglenum);
	}
}[/code]

Go on and make your guesses before copy-pasting the code into your own stage!

That's all for simple bullet spawning. Next time, we'll look at how to make our enemies move around instead of staying in one place. (Please wait warmly...)