# Positioning and Movement

In the previous lessons, we spawned an enemy at the position `(0, 50)` which somehow translated to placing it near the top center of the screen. In this lesson, we'll explain why that is, and explain how to do more with enemy movement than simply just having them move in a straight line at constant velocity.

### The coordinate system
(Image courtesy of Priw8)[br]
[img=content/shmupCC-tutorial/files/5/grid.png] 

ShmupCC uses the same coordinate system as the official Touhou games. This means that the top-left corner of the screen is at position `(-192, 0)` and the bottom-right of the screen is at `(192,448)`. This might seem like a bizarre choice to make, and yeah it kinda is. The main reason for this decision is that it's the coordinate system ZUN uses, but as it turns out this seemingly-arbitrary choice is in fact perfect for mirroring enemies across the Y-axis - if you wanna create something symmetrical, just spawn it at `-x` instead of `x` and be sure to set the mirroring flag (more on that later).

Unlike official Touhou games, there's no funky stuff about enemies having multiple stored positions - enemies only have one internal position in ShmupCC, and it's where the enemy actually is. So, let's look at how we can change that position.

## Enemy movement

While you could always just simply adjust an enemy's `xvel` and `yvel` fields (as well as `xaccel` and `yaccel`) and call it a day, there's a bunch of other ways to make enemies move.

Every enemy comes bundled with a special interpolator struct specifically designed to handle that enemy's movement. This makes it much easier to move enemies to different positions without awkward, jerky movement. There's a decent amount of built-in functions to handle movement via this interpolator, and the most commonly used ones are:
- [method=Enemy.setPosAbsTime,110] - Moves to the absolute position `(x, y)` in the time given
- [method=Enemy.setPosRelTime,110] - Enemy's position will change by `(x, y)` in the time given
- [method=Enemy.moveRandomWithinBounds,110] - Picks a random position within the enemy's movement bounds and moves to it

Note that using one of these methods to move enemies around actually doesn't affect the `xvel`, `yvel`, `xaccel`, or `yaccel` fields - it simply sets the enemy's position every frame. Invoking one of these methods while the enemy is still under the effect of a movement method will actually overwrite the older one with the newer one with no adverse effects (i hope).

You may have noticed that in all of these methods, there's an argument called `mode`. The interpolator has several different ways of getting an enemy from point A to point B, and I'll describe them below.
- `INTERPOLATION_LINEAR` - Moves the enemy using constant velocity.
- `INTERPOLATION_EASE_OUT2` - Starts slow, then accelerates, and stops abruptly at the end point. Best suited for enemies leaving the screen after shooting.
- `INTERPOLATION_EASE_IN2` - Starts fast, then slows down as it approaches the target. Best used for enemies entering the screen after spawning, or random boss movement.
- `INTERPOLATION_EASE_OUT_IN2` - Combines the above two modes to start slowly, speed up, then slow down as the destination approaches. Best used for random boss movement that's meant to seem smooth.
- `INTERPOLATION_EASE_IN_OUT2` - Inverse of `INTERPOLATION_EASE_OUT_IN2`. Starts and stops fast, with a pause in the middle. I don't have any idea what this would be best suited for, but it's there because it's trivial to implement and maybe someone will find a use-case for it. Maybe some enemies doing a drive-by from one side of the screen to the other?

Instead of typing all these out, you can also use the numbers 0 thru 4. That does have the tradeoff of readability, though. Eh, it's personal preference either way.

### The dreaded mirror flag

Please wait warmly for my implementation of this thing to be de-spaghettified.


Next up is... callbacks!