# Callbacks

Callbacks are a pretty simple concept. You wait for something to happen, and when it does, you call a function. I'm not going to go into this section with any assumptions about how people expect an engine to handle callbacks, and simply state how ShmupCC handles callbacks.

First off, time-based callbacks. I already briefly explained this in the "timing" chapter of this tutorial, but time-based callbacks are traditionally handled by setting `enemyTimer` or `stageTimer` to 0 and then, during the [method=StageScript.tick,110] or [method=Enemy.doEnemyActions,110] methods, write code that specifies a timer value. In order to avoid accidentally triggering the timer callback unintentionally, we put everything in a switch statement. Refer to [chapter 3](#b=shmupCC-tutorial/&p=4) of this guide for the example. Proper timer-based callbacks aren't actually implemented, yet, so this is a simple workaround.

### HP callbacks

Every enemy comes bundled with a method called [method=Enemy.doHPcallback,110]. This method, as you can probably tell by its name, is where you write all your user-defined logic to handle when enemies hit their HP callback. Note that this method is used for *every single callback* an enemy most perform, so it's on you to determine exactly which code path must be taken depending on which planned things you want to use the callback for. There's definitely a better way to do this by using lambda expressions, but I haven't studied lambda syntax in java enough to make use of that. When I do implement it, I'll edit this section of the tutorial.

HP callbacks can be used for a lot of things - making enemies shoot or move differently after they've been damaged enough, for example. But the most important use of HP callbacks is to handle phase changes for bosses. This is one specific example of something that you MUST use HP callbacks for, as opposed to constantly checking its HP value during its update logic; if an enemy takes enough damage to bring it down to 0 HP, then if it does not have more than 0 HP by the time its HP callback resolves, it will immediately be deactivated and flagged for deletion.

How does an enemy decide when to call [method=Enemy.doHPcallback,110]? Every frame, after the enemy determines how much damage it should take and applies that damage, its HP is compared to the value stored in `hpCallbackThreshold`. If `HP` is lower and `hpCallbackThreshold ≠ -1`, it runs `doHPcallback`. This means that unless your HP callback routine changes either `HP` or `hpCallbackthreshold`, it'll run `doHPcallback` on every frame once its HP gets low enough.

That's all I have to say about callbacks. Next is going to be bullet transformations, and oh boy is that going to take some time to write.